***
DRC: 207  
Title: Monitorable Canister Standard  
Author: Avida <avida.life@hotmail.com>, Simpson <icpstaking-wei@hotmail.com>  
Status: Draft  
Category: Canister DRC  
Created: 2021-12-20
***

## Abstract

The DRC207 standard is designed to provide technical specifications for monitoring the status of the canister, facilitating the management of the canister's Cycles balance and storage capacity.

## Specification

The developer should implement the following methods in the canister in order to realize the monitorability of this canister.

### drc207
Queries the configuration of the current monitorable features of the canister.  
Notes:
- monitorable_by_self: Indicates whether the status (canister_status) can be queried via this canister's own canister_status() method. If `true` is entered, it's required to add the canister's canister_id to its controllers.
- monitorable_by_blackhole: Indicates whether the status (canister_status) can be queried via the blackhole canister's canister_status({ canister_id : Principal }) method. `monitorable_by_blackhole.canister_id`(principal) means that a blackhole is specified to read the canister status, For example `7hdtw-jqaaa-aaaak-aaccq-cai`. If monitorable_by_blackhole.allowed is true, it's is required to add the blackhole's canister_id to the canister's controllers.
- cycles_receivable: Indicates whether this canister implements the wallet_receive() method, and if it does, the Cycles wallet can send Cycles directly to this canister.
- timer: This is an early feature, before motoko implemented heartbeat and Timer, an external periodic call to timer_tick() was required to trigger the timer execution. Currently it is recommended to use the Timer library to implement this feature.The `timer.interval_seconds` should be greater than or equal to 5 minutes (300 seconds),  timer.interval_seconds=`0` means that timer_tick() will be executed once per heartbeat by the Monitor. Notes: Timer_tick() will be executed once the eventType `TimerTick` has been subscribed to in the Monitor. There is no guarantee that timer_tick() will be triggered on time.
```
type DRC207Support = {
    monitorable_by_self: Bool;
    monitorable_by_blackhole: { allowed: Bool; canister_id: ?Principal; };
    cycles_receivable: Bool;
    timer: { enable: Bool; interval_seconds: ?Nat; }; 
};
drc207: shared query () -> async DRC207Support;
```

### canister_status
[Optional] If monitorable_by_self is true, this method needs to be implemented to query the status of the canister. It's required to add the canister's own canister_id to its controllers.
```
type canister_status = {
     status : { #stopped; #stopping; #running };
     memory_size : Nat;
     cycles : Nat;
     settings : {
        freezing_threshold : Nat;
        controllers : [Principal];
        memory_allocation : Nat;
        compute_allocation : Nat;
    };
     module_hash : ?[Nat8];
};
canister_status : shared () -> async canister_status;
```

### wallet_receive
[Optional] If cycles_receivable is true, this method should be implemented.
```
wallet_receive: shared () -> async ();
```

### timer_tick
[Optional] If timer.enable is true, this method should be implemented to allow external monitors to call this method at regular intervals. This was a feature in earlier Motoko versions, and it is now recommended to use the Timer library to implement similar functionality.
```
timer_tick: shared () -> async ();
```

### About Blackhole Canister

Use Blackhole canister as a proxy canister to monitor the status of your canister, before using it you need to set a blackhole canister-id as one of the controllers of your canister.
The controller of the blackhole canister has been modified to its own canister id and no one can control the canister. 

The Blackhole canister id is "7hdtw-jqaaa-aaaak-aaccq-cai", or you can deploy one yourself. 

- Canister id:  7hdtw-jqaaa-aaaak-aaccq-cai  
- ModuleHash(dfx: 0.8.4):  603692eda4a0c322caccaff93cf4a21dc44aebad6d71b40ecefebef89e55f3be  
- Controllers:  7hdtw-jqaaa-aaaak-aaccq-cai   
- Github:  https://github.com/iclighthouse/ICMonitor/blob/main/Blackhole.mo